# Market-Segmentation-on-CRISA-dataset-R-
Used various clustering approaches(k-means, PAM, Hierarchical, kernel k-means) to segment the market on the basis of purchase and purchase activity

CRISA has traditionally segmented markets on the basis of purchaser demographics.  They would now like to segment the market based on two key sets of variables more directly related to the purchase process and to brand loyalty, doing so would allow CRISA to gain information about what demographic attributes are associated with different purchase behaviors and degrees of brand loyalty, and more effectively deploy promotion budgets. 
    We are using the clustering based approach for this case study because in the context of market segmentation, cluster analysis is the use of a mathematical model to discover groups of similar customers based on finding the smallest variations among customers within each group. 
    The cluster's definitions change every time the clustering algorithm runs, ensuring that the groups always accurately reflect the current state of the data. The customers within each segment are very similar to one another and significantly different than those in other segments. In other words, each segment tells a different customer story. So our approach will be first, a cluster that describes purchase behavior, a second cluster that describes basis-for-purchase. A third clustering will then consider both sets of variables. 
    The better and more effective market segmentation would enable CRISA’s clients to design more cost-effective promotions targeted at appropriate segments. Thus, multiple promotions could be launched, each targeted at different market segments at different times of a year. This would result in a more cost-effective allocation of the promotion budget to different market segments.  It would also enable CRISA to design more effective customer reward systems and thereby increase brand loyalty. 
